This is a new [**React Native**](https://reactnative.dev) project, bootstrapped using [`@react-native-community/cli`](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli).

# Notes on this project

This app is hosted on Firebase and uses the built in authentication service (with Google and Facebook as providers), cloud storage (for images) and firestore for saving messages.

The project structure has the directory `screens` as the "main" components and the `components` directory contains the sub-components for the main screens. The imports and exports are mostly done using the barrel pattern.

**_IMPORTANT_**: The app has only been tested on Android and will most likely not work on iOS.

## Libraries used

Apart from React and React Native, some additional libraries are used.
These are mostly React Native specific and will not be described further.

- React-navigation, for switching between screens
- BootSplash, shows splash screen on opening the app
- React native vector icons, for rendering icons
- Firebase, various dependencies for handling connnection to Firebase
  - app, main implementation for using Firebase
  - auth, handles authentication of users
  - storage, used for saving images
  - messaging, handles receiving push notifications

Apart from these main libraries some dependencies have been used for developing.

- TypeScript, for helping development and avoid common JavaScript bugs
- Prettier, for code formatting
- Eslint, for finding issues in the code base

## Last remarks

The Firebase cloud messaging for push notifications _does not work_ from the app, however the users can receive notifications sent from the Firebase Console.

#### Some thoughts

The idea for sending push notifications, which currently does not work, is to create a collection containing device-tokens generated by Firebase. This collection in Firestore would contain the token and the chat-forums the user has subscribed to.

When a new message is sent in one of the chat-forums the message is multi-cast to all users with tokens connected to that chat-room. The message is then received by those users and when pressed is taken to the specific chat using a deep-link.

**As of now this functionality does not work and is still on the drawing board**.
